Making a Career
The average tenure of employees working at many technology companies today is shockingly low. At both Amazon and Google, it’s just around one year. At Basecamp, it’s over five years as of 2019. That’s something to be proud of and something to ensure endures. When you work at Basecamp, it should absolutely be feasible to think about this as the place for making a life-long career.

Mastery & Titles
Advancing your career at Basecamp doesn’t mean giving up on your craft. Whether you work in programming, design, ops, support, or whatever, you can become better at the work itself and level-up that way. This is especially important since we’re a relatively small company with just two layers of managerial cake: executives and team managers. And both the executives and managers still spend the majority of their time doing actual product work!

Within each of our job functions, we’ve mapped our trajectory of mastery to five different levels. That title structure is shared amongst all departments, but the particulars of what characterizes one level from another will of course be different. Here’s an example of the titles for programming:

Junior Programmer
Programmer
Senior Programmer
Lead Programmer
Principal Programmer
While this is how we recognize mastery, it’s by no means an expectation that everyone will start as a junior and end up as a principal. Basecamp needs people and perspectives from all levels of skill. And for those who do end up progressing all the way through this path, it may well be a journey of many, many years, if not a decade+.

But these titles make it clear to everyone where someone is in their career progression at Basecamp. Note that these titles are about a particular role at Basecamp. Someone may well have been a "Senior Designer" somewhere else with a different assessment criteria and a different workflow, and then still start at Basecamp as a "Designer". We recognize mastery and titles at Basecamp for the work done at Basecamp.

Day to day, though, these titles aren’t really much of a factor. It’s not like they’re printed on your HELLO MY NAME IS sticker at the meetups (not that we have those anyway!). But they do give newcomers another way of orienting themselves at the company and it gives everyone a clear way of tracking their personal career progression at Basecamp.
